Q1: Which of the following aspects of the RISC-V instruction set make it well suited for pipelining? 

TRUE	Memory operands only appear in loads or stores in RISC-V.
TRUE	RISC-V has only a few instruction formats, with the register fields being located in the same place in each instruction.
TRUE All RISC-V instructions are the same length.
	There are 32 general purpose registers and 32 floating-point registers.
	The opcode is represented in a single contiguous group of bits in an instruction word.


Q2:  Suppose a single-cycle datapath has 4 major function units each with a latency of 200ps. A pipelined version of this datapath has one stage for each of the function units, with the same latencies. What is the speed up of the pipelined version compared to the single-cycle datapath? 
A: 4

Q3: 
	1.When a planned instruction cannot execute in the proper clock cycle because the hardware does not support the combination of instructions that are set to execute.
	- Structural Hazard

	2.When a planned instruction cannot execute in the proper clock cycle because data that is needed to execute the instruction is not yet available.
	- Data hazard

	3.When the proper instruction cannot execute in the proper pipeline clock cycle because the instruction that was fetched is not the one that is needed; that is, the flow of instruction addresses is not what the pipeline expected.
	- Control hazard

Q4: For the following RISC-V code sequence:
	ld    x7, 0(x3)
	addi  x8, x7, 1
	the RISC-V pipeline can use forwarding to completely eliminate stall cycles.
	False

Q5: How many stall cycles are required the following code sequence executing in the RISC-V pipeline, assuming all required forwarding paths are included?
	slli  x6, x10, 3		5 cycles	FORWARD alu output to ALU input
	add   x6, x6, x18		+1 cycle 	FORWARD alu output to mem
	ld    x20, 0(x6)		+1 cycle 	FORWARD memory to ALU - requires 1 stall cycle
	addi  x28, x20, -1		+2 cycles
	1 stall cycle

Q6: Branch prediction reduces the effect of branch hazards by assuming a given outcome for a branch and proceeding from that assumption, rather than waiting to ascertain the actual outcome. True

Q7: What is the latency, in clock cycles, for the following instruction in the RISC-V pipeline, assuming no stall cycles?
	andi  x30, x8, 0x0ff
	5

Q8:  A group of students were debating the efficiency of the five-stage pipeline when one student pointed out that not all instructions are active in every stage of the pipeline. After deciding to ignore the effects of hazards, they made the following four statements. Which ones are correct?

	A: Trying to allow some instructions to take fewer cycles does not help, since the throughput is determined by the clock cycle; the number of pipe stages per instruction affects latency, not throughput. 
	True

	C: Instead of trying to make instructions take fewer cycles, we should explore making the pipeline longer, so that instructions take more cycles, but the cycles are shorter. This could improve performance. 
	True

Q9:  Consider execution of a sd instruction in the RISC-V pipeline, with the instruction word being fetched in cycle n, and no stalls. In which cycle is the value of the MemWrite control signal determined, and in which cycle is it used? 

Determined in cycle n + 1, used in cycle n + 3


Q10: The pipeline registers in the RISC-V pipeline contain control signal values for use in subsequent pipeline stages. True